---
layout: one_column
title: Resume
permalink: /resume
---
# Resume
{: .page-header}

Thanks for checking out my resume. Below you will find an interactive version and you can download a pdf <a class="alert-link" href="/downloads/mark_miyashita_resume.pdf">here.</a>
{: .alert.alert-info}

# Education
{: .page-header}

### University of California, Berkeley, 2015

#### B.S. Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences (EECS)

Relevant Coursework: CS170 (Algorithms), CS186 (Databases), CS188 (Artificial Intelligence), CS161 (Security), CS162 (Operating Systems), EE122 (Networking), CS61C (C, Mips), CS61BL (Java and Data Structures), CS61A (Python), CS98 (iOS/Objective-C), CS9E (Unix)

# Experience
{: .page-header#work}

{% for job in site.work %}
### {{ job.role }} at {{ job.name }}

#### ({{ job.start-date }} - {{ job.end-date }})

{{ job.description }}

{% endfor %}

# Projects
{: .page-header}

{% for project in site.projects limit:5 %}
### {{ project.name }} {% if project.url %}<a href="{{ project.url }}">(demo)</a>{% endif %} {% if project.repo %}<a href="{{ project.repo }}">(repo)</a>{% endif %}

{{ project.description }}

{% endfor %}

<a class="large button" href="/projects">See more</a>

# Leadership
{: .page-header}

### HKN (Eta Kappa Nu) Department Relations - Fall 2013

I am the liaison between the EECS Administrative staff and HKN and the rest of the student body. I attend meetings that make decisions the affect students in EECS as well as give department tours to prospective students who are thinking of coming to Cal.

### Cal Blueprint Project Leader - Fall 2013

I lead a team of four project members to build an application that will help a non-profit organization.

### HKN (Eta Kappa Nu) Bridge Officer - Spring 2013

I am in charge of recording and capturing, the everlasting moments that take place during HKN events. I am also in charge of overseeing a group of candidates as they progress through the semester to becoming initiates in the EECS Honors Society.

### Hackers@Berkeley Officer:

I help run <a href="http://hackersatberkeley.com">Hackers@Berkeley</a>, the largest computer science and engineering club at Cal. Responsibilities include maintaining the club website (<a href="http://hackersatberkeley.com">hackersatberkeley.com</a>) as well as planning and running events such as workshops.

# Skills
{: .page-header}

### Proficient in:

Python, Ruby on Rails, Javascript, Objective-C, HTML5, CSS

### Experience in:

Java, Angular.js, C, iOS Development, Node.js, Ajax, Json, jQuery, Coffeescript, Sass, Scheme

### Other Software:

Mac OS X, Unix, Windows 7/Vista/XP, Adobe Photoshop CS4/CS5, Microsoft Office (Word, Excel, Powerpoint)

# Awards
{: .page-header}

### H@B Hackjam - Spring 2013 - 3rd Place

My team won 3rd place. We built a website that uses the web camera to detect the colors of a rubiks cube that the user holds up to the screen. Using computer vision, we detected the colors, passed the output to a solver, and then displayed the steps necessary to solve the cube. Guaranteed to not run in polynomial time.

### HKN Outstanding Candidate - Fall 2012

I was selected as the Outstanding Candidate for the Fall 2012 initiates into HKN, the EECS Honors Society at UC Berkeley.

### H@B Hackjam - Fall 2012 - Hilfinger Award from Box

My teammate and I were selected for this award based on our submission Tim which is described above.

### HKN (Eta Kappa Nu) Candidate - Fall 2012

I was selected as a candidate for the EECS Honors Society. HKN accepts students in the top 1/4 of the Junior standing EECS students.
