---
layout: one_column
title: "Lab Assistant FAQ"
categories: [cs61a, lab_assistants]
---

### Lab Assistant FAQ

In response to the initial survey that I sent out, here are my answers to your questions! If I didn't answer your question fully or you need more details about a specific scenario, feel free to send me an email. Also, take a look at the <a href="/cs61a/lab_assistants/tips">Lab Assistant Tips</a> page for general tips and what to expect while you lab assist!

1. **Q: Do Lab Assistants get to choose their own schedule?** <br>
   A: Yes, of course! You guys are volunteering and all we ask is that you are committed to the times that you choose. If you haven't filled out the form yet, please do asap! It's located [here.](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/13kpx60Nc4d7trLAw_heOD-uuwlLL9IojzaxI_ezvTgc/viewform)

2. **Q: I won't be here this Spring, but I'd like to help out in future semester. What should I do?** <br>
   A: The person in charge of organizing lab assistants changed every semester (well it used to, I've been doing it for the past few semesters). You can email me and I'll try to figure out who will be in charge in the coming semesters.

3. **Q: Is there a grade requirement?** <br>
   A: We only ask that you passed the class.

4. **Q: I also applied as a Reader, when can I expect to hear about that?** <br>
   A: Readers are chosen by the professor at the beginning of the semester (usually before it starts). I'm not exactly sure what the status is currently for hiring readers but I would assume that he has picked some (if not all) of the readers for the Spring semester. I might be wrong though.

5. **Q: Is this an unpaid internship?** <br>
   A: The EECS department is now calling this position "Academic Intern" but you all know it as "Lab Assistant." The two names are synonymous. Being a Lab Assistant/Academic Intern is a great way to reinforce what you learned/keep your skills sharp so you can consider it an internship because you will always be learning.

7. **Q: Is this class still in Python?** <br>
   A: You bet!

8. **Q: Are the projects mostly the same?** <br>
   A: The concepts are the same, there might be some slight variations in the directions and possibly some added/removed steps.

9. **Q: Are the hours flexible?** <br>
   A: You should talk individually with your TA about this. In general, we're fine with you skipping a week here or there for midterms/projects (we're students too!). The only thing we ask is that you let us know in advance just in case we were relying on you being there the week that you took off. Also, try not to do this very often because consistency is better for the students that you are helping!

10. **Q: If I can't make it every week, should I still opt-in for units?** <br>
   A: You should only opt-in for units if you can come every week (except maybe one or two labs). If you can't commit to that schedule, please don't sign up for the units, just come as a volunteer. We're a little more lenient with volunteers (but we still like to see you as much as you can make).

11. **Q: Is it possible to add more units after the semester starts?** <br>
   A: Yes, but you should let me know within the first three weeks if you wish to add/remove units so that I can send them in to the department. Also, make sure you add/remove those units on Telebears.


If you have any other questions, feel free to email me!

{% include disqus.html %}
